
[Source](https://www.blendo.co/amazon-redshift-guide-data-analyst/data-modeling-table-design/understanding-selecting-sort-keys/?utm_medium=referral&utm_source=quora.com&utm_campaign=compound-and-interleaved-sort-keys)

The other responders have described and defined these two sorting modes so I won’t spend time there. Rather let me summarize the real world issues created by interleaved sort keys when they are used in inappropriate situations.

- Time-series data: Since interleaved sorting tries to “balance” the weight of each sort key there is no reasonable way to understand where new data for a table will be “vacuumed” to. If you have data added to your tables regularly expect very long (and sometimes non-completing) vacuum times. Don’t use interleaved sort keys with time-series data (unless you know you have the time to perform the vacuum when your table is full size and you know how and when to perform vacuum reindex)
- Not knowing your dominant where clause condition is not the same as not having a dominant condition: Too many read about interleaved sort keys and believe that it is the best of all worlds and therefore the right starting point. To optimize Redshift schemas you need to understand your query patterns - if you don’t understand your queries and how sort columns can improve overall performance you don’t know enough to opt for interleaved sort keys. In most cases there is a dominant column that should be a sort key which is often a data range. A range of dates show up in most queries where clauses and it is highly advantageous to have this date columns as the first sort key in the compound sort key list. Interleaved sort keys in this situation will be a significant reduction in performance.
- Small tables: Others have mentioned this but it is worth repeating. Small tables will not benefit from interleaved sorting and the size needed depends on the number of sort keys you specify.
- Very large tables as compared to the cluster size: Sorting large tables requires lots of extra disk space to store temporary intermediate results. If an interleaved table is more that ~40% of the cluster storage you may not have enough room to perform the sorting of the table. And since the sort order of an interleaved table in not knowable ahead of time a piece meal deep copy is not an option either. You end up sizing your cluster up to have the extra space to perform maintenance actions on your interleaved table.
- Optimizing for large joins and partitions: Others have mentioned this. Compound sort keys can help with these but in most cases this is a 2nd order optimization. Reduce the amount of data being read from disk first and you will be well served.

So now that I have told you all the traps that you can fall into with interleaved sort keys let me say that there is a very real set of use cases for interleaved sorting. When you have very large data tables, that are basically unchanging, that can have any one of a list of columns used to exclude data without the others showing up, and that through the use of these different where clause columns can exclude large amounts of data from consideration - then interleaved keys are the way to go.

It is just that too often new Redshift users read the benefits of interleaved sort keys without hearing the down sides and fall into the above issues.

If you want to go deeper on how interleaved key work a good write-up is: https://blog.chartio.com/blog/un... (and part-2)

So I’ll repeat my answer above - start by using compound sort keys, understand your query patterns, understand your maintenance processes, understand your data updating processes, research when interleave can benefit you, then experiment with interleaved where you have data that shows it might help. I can tell you that using interleaved keys where you shouldn’t is far worse than using compound keys where interleaved would have been better.
